Donald Trump is trying to wash his hands of the Ukraine issue, so that they can drop a terrible deal at Europe & Ukraine’s feet and blame them if they don’t comply. If/when this ceasefire fails, he will claim that he did everything he can and let Ukraine be overrun by Russia. Once that occurs, he will take no political hit for it, because nobody cares about Ukraine as much as they cared about conflicts like Afghanistan.

The United States is abandoning European security to Russia. The bigger fear is that AfD over-performs in the February election and Russia gets even more influence in European affairs. They want to break the European Union and once again control Eastern European affairs.
***
George Carlin is one of the worst things to ever happen to American politics. He sold endless cynicism and conspiratorial thinking as if it was insightful or smart. There’s a phenomenon where being anti-establishment, regardless of the actual merits of the arguments themselves, is de facto considered insightful or intelligent.
***
The idea is that polarization, while destructive to a political system in the short-term, can also mean that you’re on the right track and considering the proper questions.
***
Just the idea of understanding history, philosophy, economics, finance, politics, mathematics, computer science, physics, and so much more fascinates me. I could grow my knowledge of this world and also build realistic fictional ones. It almost feels like what I’ve always wanted – to build fictional worlds that inspire imagination and can influence how we interact with and shape our current one. I’d like to go the Tolkien route of denying allegory in my stories. All of my works, while dealing with similar fundamental human problems, should not be inspired too closely by any real human events. At least not my worldbuilding stories. Certain fantasy ones I could adopt through adapting historical sources and events like some fantasy writers do. I also like the idea of stories set “in the real world”, but in fictional countries.
I want to understand this universe as deeply as possible and use that knowledge to build new universes. My skills are in mathematics, computers, physics, and engineering. Everything else can be secondary, but still worth knowing.
***
Late last year, a meme was spread around the Internet asking women if they’d rather be alone in the forest with a man or a bear. The answer most women gave is a bear, citing statistics on sexual assault and kidnapping of women. This ignited an internet firestorm of people arguing about those statistics and usual accusations of misogyny levied against any who didn’t support the majority opinion. I hated this trend for a different reason.

There’s a certain kind of guy who’s really obsessed with the question of whether or not it’s okay to hit a woman if she hits you first. The answer to this question isn’t really relevant. The real point is that the kind of guy who’s usually obsessed with it doesn’t really care about the question itself. Most of the time they just really want a valid excuse to hit a woman. In my opinion, the man-bear question is a female twist on the same dynamic. The question itself doesn’t really matter. What really matters, and why it’s so irritating to so many men in particular, is that it’s just another meaningless vector for self-righteous people to virtue signal on TikTok and Instagram. Note that this can still be true, even if you agree with the majority opinion on the man-bear question. It doesn’t matter that you might be correct on the statistics of men sexually assaulting women. What matters is that the question itself exists for no other purpose than rage-baiting, and thus the entire discourse is pointless and divisive.
***
A common worry among young adults is the fear of not knowing what they’re doing. Adulthood thrusts a lot of responsibilities on you and it can be frightening to handle those things for the first time. The usual (true) answer given in response is that nobody in the world knows what they’re doing. Everyone in the world, from the lowest rungs to the highest, is just winging it and doing the best they can. Applied to institutions, this can be taken in a cynical way to bring the high-and-mightiness of supposed “experts” down a peg. However, it can also be taken in a way that demands more charitability and less conspiratorial thinking when you encounter institutional wrongdoing. The institutions that we have are not evil things run by evil people engaging in evil machinations to do unfathomable evil. They’re systems that were built by at least somewhat intelligent people with honest intentions toward solving a problem given certain constraints. That’s not to say you can’t take issue with how they’ve chosen to solve it, or that institutions can’t become corrupted by bureaucracy or maligned incentives. However, good-faith discussion rooted in understanding how an institution works and proposing evidence-based solutions for how they could work better are more productive than conspiracies about how (((they))) are trying to get us to inject microchips/control us/send us to FEMA death camps.

A good application of this theory is the recent murder of the CEO of UnitedHealthcare Brian Thompson by Luigi Mangione. Among younger Millennials and Gen-Z, there’s been a lauding of the killer as a hero and fighter for the working class and people hurt by the corrupt and broken United States healthcare system[1] Consuming this media, you’d get the sense that American health insurance companies are evil bloodsucking leeches that deny life-saving medical care to line their pockets rather than, you guessed it, systems built by intelligent people with honest intentions toward solving a problem given constraints. We can talk about how the U.S. healthcare system could be better (oh can we), but most of the people participating in this social media frenzy aren’t educated enough on the topic to have a worthwhile opinion on that, so they fall to the lowest common denominator.
  
[1] Despite the fact that we now know Luigi Mangione was not working class, but rather a member of the wealthy Ivy League ownership class that many on the left build their political project opposing. More ironically, most of the young people on social media cheering for his release are probably also nearer to the upper-middle-class themselves. As Orwell said: “It is strange how easily almost any Socialist writer can lash himself into frenzies of rage against the class to which, by birth or by adoption, he himself invariably belongs.”
***
Donald Trump announced tariffs on chips from Taiwan today. Things are about to get more expensive. He’s also joking about running for a third term. This is how it always starts – jokes, and then jokes made real. What a depressing turn of events.

I don’t have much loyalty to my country anymore. It’s really sad but I don’t identify with it anymore. I identify with the principles that it once stood for – liberalism, freedom, human rights, consent of the governed, economic liberalization, technology and innovation. However, I don’t know if I recognize the country as it’s become. Those values are worthwhile to me, but the country itself I’m not so sure anymore.
***
Just because the action you engaged in drew attention to a political issue you care about doesn’t mean the action is justified or that it’s an appropriate way to make change.
***
Martin Luther King was not a violent revolutionary that advocated property destruction or burning down Walmarts. However, he was also not a nice, polite individual that knocked on the door of the governor and asked for civil rights with sugar on top. He was a rabble-rouser, a troublemaker, an activist, and technically a criminal that incited people to lawlessness and disruption.
***
