*Foundation* is a science-fiction novel written by Isaac Asimov.

Hari Seldon is a mathematics professor on the planet Trantor and has developed a theory, called psychohistory, can probabilistically predict the future. Notably, this theory predicts the stagnation and eventual collapse of the Galactic Empire. Seeking to shorten, or even forestall, the galactic dark age that such a collapse would envision, Seldon gets the approval of the Imperial government to create the Foundation. The goal of the Foundation is to create the *Encyclopedia Galactica*, an archive of all the knowledge of the Empire that can be preserved in the event of collapse. The Foundation is given dominion over a remote planet Terminus in the outer reaches of the galaxy and begins its work on the Encyclopedia.

As time goes on, and the political and social circumstances around it change, so too does the structure and leadership of the Foundation. Individual characters throughout its history guide the Foundation through various *Seldon Crises*, existential challenges predicted by Hari Seldon's psychohistorical model, and forge its evolution into the seed of the Second Galactic Empire.

**Relevant Themes to the Silicon Valley Canon**
- **Great Man Theory**: The story of Foundation is driven forward by the actions of great men like Salvor Hardin and Hober Mallow. These ultra-competent men see the greater forces at play in the world around them, often missed by their contemporaries, and use them to guide the Foundation through potential crisis. The chapter titled "The Encyclopedists" is literally just Salvor Hardin cutting through short-sighted Foundation bureaucrats to transform Terminus into a political power. If that's not a Silicon Valley fantasy, I don't know what is.
- **Isolated Region as the Heart of Science and the Future of a Decadent Empire**: Whether he intended to or not, Isaac Asimov created the perfect analog of Silicon Valley in the planet Terminus. Terminus sits in the far-flung outer rim of the Galactic Empire. Silicon Valley, headquartered in San Francisco, sits on the coasts of the United States. The early work of the Encyclopedia makes Terminus a concentrated beacon of science and innovation, a characteristic it shares with Palo Alto. Lastly, the Foundation and Terminus are not a mere research outpost, but a civilization unto themselves. In fact, the Foundation may be the only hope for preserving the values and advancement of the otherwise decadent Galactic Empire. If you've spent any time in Silicon Valley, you've heard an almost word-for-word similar ethos.
- **STEMlords as Protagonists**: The main character of the story is Hari Seldon, a mathematics professor and creator of a theory called psychohistory that can predict the future in probabilistic terms. Foreseeing the inevitable collapse of the Empire, he takes matters into his own hands and creates the Foundation. Having the core character be a mathematics professor rather than a typical supersoldier appeals to tech nerds like me.
- **Science & Technology as Tools of Political Power**: Throughout every chapter, a key aspect of the Foundation's power is its technological and later economic superiority. In one of the more badass segments of the novel, Salvor Hardin uses this technological superiority, and the surrounding polities' dependence on it, as a weapon to crush the expansionary kingdom of Anacreon without firing a single shot.