Ways of thinking better. A **mental model** is a way of thinking about a topic that discards irrelevant details and keeps the core elements intact. They're a way of compressing information into manageable chunks. Most importantly, mental models help us accurately understand the world.
1. You learn more from the things that disprove your hypothesis than from those that prove them. In science, there's a reason why we seek *disconfirming* evidence rather than confirming evidence. There's a reason why falsifiability is important. [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vKA4w2O61Xo) is a Veritasium video demonstrating this concept.
2. The map is the not the territory. Don't confuse your abstractions and model of the world with the world itself and all its complexities. Updating your map is difficult and requires reconciling your biases and desires with reality. Because we can't map everything, we sometimes rely on maps made by others (experts, pundits, etc.) In this case, choose your cartographer wisely.
3. Know your circle of competence - your personal sphere of expertise and where your knowledge and skills are concentrated. Knowing the size isn't as important as knowing the *boundaries*. Be able to determine whether or not something is within your sphere.
4. Practice *first principles thinking*. Break down complex problems into their fundamental truths. Identify root causes. Start from scratch and build from the ground up. Reasoning from first principles improves understanding and questions if the way things have always been done is truly the wisest way.
5. Use thought experiments. These are sandboxes of the mind where we can explore without constraint. Ask hard questions and think about implications. Help reveal hidden assumptions and unintended consequences. 
6. Second-order thinking is thinking beyond the immediate next step. Anticipate the ripple effects of actions. In chess, don't just think about the immediate next move, but the effect on the game as a whole. Consider the long-term implications of choices.

**References**:
1. [Farnam Street](https://fs.blog/mental-models/?utm_source=pocket_saves#general_thinking_concepts) ([a](http://web.archive.org/web/20240428145207/https://fs.blog/mental-models/))