[Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion by Robert B. Cialdini](http://amzn.to/1KD7nHO)
Robert Cialdini studied combined studies of modern marketing with lessons from history into a book on how people are influenced. The knowledge in this book can help you both advance your interests and avoid being manipulated.

[The Bell Curve by Charles Murray](http://amzn.to/1KD7mUk)
The modern world allows great wealth to be created by and captured by those who are experts at manipulating abstract concepts. But this ability is not distributed equally. Charles Murray surveys the research on how IQ is linked to both income and other life outcomes. He shows that disparities in cognitive traits are a central fact that underlie much social phenomena of our time. This book provoked a public outcry when it came out. You can read the most sophisticated counter-attacks via the book [Scientists respond to the Bell Curve](http://amzn.to/1Hkc2aU). You can read rejoinders to the rejoinders in this long article, [The Bell Curve, 20 Years After](http://humanvarieties.org/2015/01/02/the-bell-curve-20-years-after/). My own take is that critics of *The Bell Curve* mainly point out the statistical limits to our degree of certainty – limits which Murray mostly already acknowledged. The critiques do not prove the overall conclusions wrong, much less do they prove the opposite conclusions. Statistics are always imperfect, but I tend to agree with Murray’s conclusions since (a) the raw data so overwhelmingly supports his theses, and (b) his conclusions match what I have personally observed in life.

[The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins](http://amzn.to/1Qn9Bdc)
Explore the evolutionary and genetic logic that determines behavior in the animal kingdom. Animals face a wide array of choices: to fight, bluster, or run away; to cry to mom for food, or to stay silent so as to not alert predators; to fight with siblings or to share; to take care of a baby or to abandon it. All these behaviors can be understood better by understanding the logic of the selection of genes.