Mainstream media versus alternative/independent media

I think alternative media is inferior to mainstream media. Alternative media typically has zero editorial control or oversight, meaning their pundits, writers, and commentators have less care about repeating lies or substantiating claims that they make. Alternative media influencers, being made up of individuals rather than larger companies, are more susceptible to audience capture, regurgitating whatever their audience likes to hear rather than what is actually true. Alternative media audiences will never hold their particular figure accountable for lies or mistakes they make. In fact, there is no functioning body or system that holds alternative media figures accountable for their mistakes. Audiences won't hold them accountable, they won't hold themselves accountable, the market certainly won't, and most large figures are afraid of any serious confrontation. The epistemic practices of these formats are weak as well. It's entirely possible to read the Wikipedia article on a subject and be more informed than the majority of alternative media commentators. Most mainstream reporters that cover a particular beat will have read hundreds of pieces on the subject, as well as spoken to countless experts. Alternative media figures will consult their Twitter feeds and repeat whatever they find uncritically. Their standards for evidence are weak, being quick to jump to conspiratorial conclusions at the slighest chance.

A common counter to my position is bringing up mistakes mainstream media has made, such as the New York Times repeating US government claims of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, or earlier instances of them casting doubt on Soviet atrocities like the Holodomor. My response here is multi-part.

First, these criticisms aren't apt because I've never claimed that the mainstream media is perfect. The defense alternative media fans are relying on here is comparing in absolutes rather than relatives. Mainstream media is not *absolutely true* and alternative media *absolutely false*. My position is that *relative to one another*, mainstream media comes out ahead of alternative media on almost any topic on metrics of factfulness and quality of analysis.

Second, wrongness and mistakes can be graded on a curve. The New York Times' mistake with Iraqi WMDs was horrible. However, it's worth recognizing how difficult of a question that is for *any media institution* to handle. The question involves national security, nation-state actors, terrorist groups, multiple competing intelligence agencies, and a highly-technical, highly-secretive subject matter. I'm not justifying the New York Times making the mistake. I'm saying at least it's a high-level mistake.

Compare that to Candance Owens being unable to watch 10 minutes of a CDC presentation. Or multiple conservative influencers being indicted because they got duped by Russian state media. Or Tucker Carlson re-litigating World War II and doing puff pieces on Putin's train logistics. Or Jimmy Dore defending the government of Muammar Gaddafi. Or Pizzagate. Or gay frogs. This isn't nation-state nukes. At best, this is criminally lazy epistemics. At worst, it's blatant anti-Semitism, anti-Americanism, authoritarian apologia, or being Russian mouthpieces.
