Interesting reading course in the Great Books
https://graham.uchicago.edu/programs-courses/basic-program

...

Today was a productive day for programming. I finished some user interface work on Northwind Traders, mainly table styling. The hardest part will be writing the raw HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. I should probably write the HTML first, then the CSS, then the JavaScript. Focus on making sure all of the content is present.

I'm beginning to feel a solidification of the habits and things I want to focus most of my time on. Programming, computer science, mathematics, music, philosophy, political science, politics, and public policy. Programming and computer science means I can write
programs and contribute to open-sourece projects. I can get better as a software engineer and advance my career. It's felt easier now that I view coding as a tool to improve my computer usage, rather than just a career tool. I need to let my curiosity guide me. Through that I will keep my motivation and enjoyment. Mathematics comes as an extension of computer science. A lot of the most interesting problems in computer science require some understanding of math. I want to write about math, study math, improve at math, and make educational math lectures and content. I think social media like YouTube can fulfill my urge to be an educator.

I can practice music. Today I played with an online piano. It was fun! I enjoyed just making noise. I liked the advice from Zheanna to just play, and then build with theory, then play more, then build more theory, and go on. I need to let fun and creativity guide my journey through music. That's the most important part. Structure and theory needs to drive the performance, not the other way around. Learn the rules, but then break them! Don't feel constrained.

Philosophy is relevant to a lot of political issues. There's a distinct lack of popular philosophy content. Writers like SlateStarCodex that inspire me have written about philosophy. I should be aware that my political interests are fundamentally applied and fundamentally relevant to political issues.

Politics, political science, and public policy are probably the things I read about the most outside of programming and computer science. It's only natural that I keep learning, researching, and studying them. After the election, I'd like more of my time to be focused on wonkier policy research. I don't want to follow the horse-racing of politics. I care more about individual policies, data, problems in society, and how we can best solve them. I want to be pragmatic and less ideological. Enough of the horse-racing and more about the best way to solve societal problems. Political issues also provide good fodder for essays, novels, and writing.

Some fields of political science & public policy that would be fun to research:
- Urban policy
- Housing policy
- Healthcare policy
- Economic and financial policy
- Education policy
- Defense policy
- Monetary policy
- Political systems
- Drug policy
- Criminal justice
- Tax policy
- Energy policy

Favorites
- Energy policy
- Tax policy
- Defense policy
- Urban & housing policy