---
title: 2024-11-05
author: Aaron Simpson
created: 2024-11-05
---
Dear Diary,

The big day is finally here. Something will happen tonight that will determine the future of our country. I'm nervous but also calm. I'm scared but also optimistic. It's a hard combination of emotions to work through if I'm being honest. At the very least, it's probably worth reiterating for a final time why I feel Kamala Harris is the better candidate for president of the United States.

The success and prosperity of a country does not depend on its laws, but its institutions. Those sound like the same thing, but they are not. Russia, on paper, is a federal presidential democracy. However, in actuality, it's an authoritarian dictatorship led by Vladimir Putin. Why is that? Because the institutions of the country are corrupted. The courts are staffed by judges loyal to Putin, the State Duma legislature is dominated by his party United Russia, and elections are run by Putin loyalists, meaning they are neither free nor fair. It doesn't matter how much a country's constitution talks about laws, freedom, and human rights if the actual organs of power do not reflect that.

Building off of that, we can see that the institutions of a country are only as good as the people that run them. Part of the reason the United States has been so stable for so many years is because, through reason or divine intervention, the people that have staffed the bodies of our government have been loyal to the ideals of democracy over all else.

Donald Trump has no respect or understanding of these ideals. He doesn't care about freedom of speech, as he has suggested locking up people for burning the United States flag. He doesn't care for a free press, as he has repeatedly mentioned investigating and revoking the licenses of news organizations he doesn't like. He has called the media "the enemy of the people". A few days ago, he talked about shooters having to "shoot through" members of the media to get to him, which he said he "wouldn't mind". He doesn't care for press that holds government accountable, as any publication that dares to criticize him or not carry his ideological line he deems "fake news". In fact, Donald Trump does not believe in accountability whatsoever. When asked if he takes accountability for his handling of the coronavirus, he said he accepts none, preferring to blame China and other deep state forces. He has transformed the Republican Party into a personality cult that will never dare to restrain him. His media apparatus is the same, dominated by sycophantic yes men that will gladly lie to push his agenda. He has staffed the Supreme Court of the United States with justices that have shown themselves willing to bend to his will. Anyone within his inner circle that comes out against him is immediately tarred and feathered, regardless of previous loyalty or favorable statements.

Most importantly, Donald Trump has no allegiance to democracy or the peaceful transfer of power. He has called almost every election he's ever been in fake, whether it be the Apprentice at the Emmy's or the presidential election of 2020. He even alleged fraud in the 2016 presidential election, an election that *he won*. Unsurprisingly, him and his supporters are prepared to call the 2024 presidential election fake if they lose this one as well.

On the backs of those lies, Donald Trump and his loyalists tried to subvert our democratic process in the aftermath of the 2020 presidential election. To this day, he has never conceded and continues to claim that he is the rightful victor. On election night in 2020, he waited until he was ahead, stepped out on stage, and demanded that vote counting be halted and that the Supreme Court declare him president again. When that failed, his legal team launched 62 knowingly-baseless lawsuits in multiple states seeking to overturn the results of the election. After those failed, he attempted to pressure the Secretary of State and Governor of Georgia to "find" votes to help him win. After that failed, he got slates of electors to break the law by forging fake electoral votes that they transmitted to Congress. He asked his Vice President Mike Pence to violate federal law by either certifying those fake votes, or throwing the election to the Republican-controlled House of Representatives. Finally, after everything else failed, Trump gave an unhinged speech full of violent rhetoric and sent a mob of his supporters to attack the Capitol building and watched it happen for 3 hours before doing anything to stop it.

The above actions are disgusting, immoral, un-American, and disqualifying for a President of the United States.

I'm not claiming that the Democratic Party is perfect. Kamala Harris is probably to the left of me economically. I specifically don't agree with her policies on price gouging. I might not even agree with the Child Tax Credit. I didn't agree with Joe Biden on student loan forgiveness.

On the flip side, I *do* agree with the Democratic Party on healthcare, upholding and reinforcing Obamacare, something Republicans have no alternative for. I agree with the Democratic Party on abortion and upholding a woman's right to choose. I agree with the Democrats on foreign policy, specifically defense of our allies in NATO, standing up to dictators like Putin that Donald Trump has praised, and defending democracies like Ukraine and Taiwan from the threats of autocrats. I think Democrats will do more to embolden the Western liberal international order in the face of a New Axis of Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea. Most importantly however, *I believe in the ability of the Democratic Party to hold itself accountable*. In the wake of an attack on Israel by Hamas, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have affirmed Israel's right to defend itself. House Democrats went as far as censuring Rashida Tlaib for invoking the anti-Semitic slogan "from the river to the sea". The Biden DOJ has prosecuted a sitting Democrat Senator, the Democrat Mayor of New York, and even the President's own son. And, when Joe Biden had a disastrous debate performance against Donald Trump in July, his own party members and the liberal-leaning mainstream media pressured him to stand down for a new generation to rise up.

The Democratic Party, while imperfect, has proven itself more loyal to upholding our institutions than Donald Trump, who has promised to staff them with people that will never challenge him and unquestionably do his bidding, much like autocrats in systems around the world that he admires.

After this election, I'm going to disconnect from politics to a large degree. I still care about political issues, such as foreign affairs, economic policy, and housing development. However, the actual world of political wrangling is dishonest, rage-inducing, and depressing. I've spent too much of my life embroiled in this toxic online world and need to see more of humanity. There are too many books, movies, songs, video games, and art pieces to admire to spend any more time here. I can hone my craft of rhetoric and writing and become a better person away from it all. I can pay more attention to Deanna and fall deeper in love with her. I can plan our future together. Eventually, I can be a better father to my child(ren) and guide them to a better life.

I'm thinking about buying a Switch to play some games. I might also clean my desk and finally set up a decent gaming rig so that I can do more my PC. I was watching old Minecraft YouTubers yesterday and I missed the cozier vibe they provided when I was younger.

In terms of writing, I'm inspired by people like Cormac McCarthy and Isaac Asimov. Asimov was a prolific writer on multiple subjects, a scientist, and a science fiction icon. Cormac didn't own a computer (even later in life), stayed off of social media, and was a curious mind that shined through in his fiction. I'm also inspired by Renaissance men like George Soros. Soros built a career in a field he was good at (finance), but actually sought intellectual freedom to explore his true passion of philosophy. I want to do more work like that. This diary is a project in writing more of the words in my head. Hopefully they'll matter to somebody.

Good luck tonight, world.