I'm currently in St. Joseph, Michigan, staying in a condo with Deanna and her dad, George. Her step-brother Jason and his wife Meredith live here. Jason is Jonathan's brother (Texas software engineer, works for Redfin). The vibe I'm getting from this town is very much beach-side resort. It
has parts that feel rundown blue-collar industrial, and others that are very hip and youthful. When
I was driving in, it looked like a county that was very light red politically. From the way Jason
spoke, it sounds like this area is going through a change and rejuvenation, changing it's economic
center and cultural way of life. I'm excited to see what happens to this area over the next several
years and if it becomes more economically-active, built up, and Democratic.

I'm thinking about the work of Frederick Terman. I look up to Frederick because he's an electrical engineer, educator, and academic administrator. However, he was more than just a professor. He's widely regarded for being one of the founding minds behind Silicon Valley. He gives me a similar vibe
to the traitorous eight founders of Fairchild Semiconductor. It inspires me to focus more on my strengths of mathematics, computer science, electrical engineering, physics, and mechanical engineering. My writing drive also pushes me towards philosophy and fiction. A nice mix of philosophy, science fiction, and STEM engineering could give a nice rounding to my work.

I'm inspired by Byrne Hobart because of his broad range of interests and consistently prolific writing
on those topics. He's also inspirational because his rise feels incredibly meritocratic. Byrne didn't go to an Ivy League school - he dropped out of Arizona State University. He moved to New York, worked
as an analyst in finance and marketing, and built himself up from there.

What can I take from these people?
- Frederick Terman: Focus on my strengths of computer science, mathematics, physics, and engineering.
Don't limit yourself to just academia though. Frederick Terman is a great example of an idea from
Tyler Cowen: the high-return activity of raising others' aspirations. Build stuff and inspire!

- Byrne Hobart and Tyler Cowen: Write more. Write more. Write more. You'll get better. Copy Scott Alexander, Byrne, and Tyler if you have to. Just write about something. Become an information billionaire. Learn about a wide range of topics and have broad interests. It's okay to dive deep
on something, but also be polymathic.