Today, TENET Media was indicted by the United State Department of Justice for being funded and supported by Russia Today (RT),
the Kremlin-funded Russian state media organization. There's a huge trend of political influencers on Twitter and YouTube spouting
anti-establishment talking points. Not all of these commentators are funded by foreign powers, but it's suspicious how many of them
just outwardly repeat Russian talking points or populist narratives that destroy faith in Western institutions.

Research Topic: Read the indictment from the Department of Justice.
Research Topic: The nature of Russian information warfare and disinformation operations.
Research Topic: Read the Mueller Report and study the investigations into Russian influence in the 2016 presidential election.

...

Tucker Carlson had a popular historian on his podcast today that engaged in Holocaust denialism. The attempts by anti-establishment alternative media to engage in WWII revisionism are not necessarily because they're all Nazis or far-righters. Some of them, like Nick Fuentes, undoubtedly are. However, Tucker's motivations are far deeper. Tucker is pro-Russia. He's given friendly coverage to Putin's regime and praised the way he governs his country, along with other anti-Western authoritaarian strongmen like Viktor Orban. Tucker's belief is less an affinity towards the ideology of 1940s Germany, and moreso a hatred of the West, its institutions, its governance, and its ideas. When you view his actions through this lens, everything makes sense. The goal isn't necessarily to build up the Axis; it's to undermine the Allies and the world they built after.

...

