---
title: 10/30/24
author: Aaron Simpson
date: 10/30/24
---

Dear Diary,

I can slowly feel myself burning out of the politics world. The double standards are starting to wear me down. I can't really be angry anymore. I'm just caring less and less. It's not worth it to shout into the void or get angry about these things. There are better ways to spend my time. There are five days until the presidential election. No matter what the outcome, I'm completely disconnecting from this world. Donald Trump can call his opponents "vermin", "communists", "sick people", and "poison" in the blood of the country, and nothing happens. However, Biden responds by calling them "garbage" and all of a sudden it's a huge deal. I have no patience anymore for this nonsense.

My plan is to either watch the election play out on election night, or just go to sleep and wake up to the result. If Trump loses, I'll give myself a day to bask in the rage of Twitter and social media, then delete my account and move on. If Trump wins, I delete my account immediately. The time I currently spend getting angry about political issues can be used for personal development. I have enough media to consume.

I'd like to spend time on my Pokemon API projects. I have tasks broken out for setting up the "PokeProxy" that will integrate with the PokeAPI. Once that's completed, I'll start building a Pokedex web application.

There's a lot of big things happening at work. A lot of stuff needs to get done with Card Service. If we can sign Walmart, that's a *huge* client. It's also a lot of traffic coming through my code. I should make sure everything is up to par and ready to go. I should also understand Walmart's business in general. I have no idea how that company works.

I'm going to propose to Deanna next year. That means I need to plan a proposal and buy a ring. I should start that now.

I was thinking about my foreign policy research projects a few days ago. The common thread of all of them is roughly "Asia". The Middle East is closer to Asia. Russia is in Europe and Asia. China is in Asia. South Korea, India, Singapore, and Myanmar are in the Asia-Pacific region. I think my first project will be either Syria, Israel/Palestine, China, or India.

For India, I'd like to understand the broad history of India. It'd also be nice to understand the Indian economy. How has it grown and changed over the past few decades? What are some pieces of Indian culture I can consume?

For Syria, my main focus would be the Syrian Civil War. What happened? Why did it happen? What crimes has Assad committed? Who are the factions? Possible solutions?

For Israel-Palestine, I'd like to know the history, the various wars, international law, accusations of genocide, and possible solutions. Who is the PLO? Who is the PA? Who is Hamas? Benjamin Netanyahu? What are the basics of international law? Major historical events?

For China, I'd like to understand the end of the Qing dynasty, the history and operations of the Chinese Communist Party, the Chinese Civil War, Chiang Kai-shek, the history and development of Taiwan, the Chinese economy, the Chinese technology industry, and preparations for a Chinese invasion of Taiwan. I could also start my Mandarin project.

...

Dwarkesh Patel is apart from other podcasters by the quality of his guests and his ability to deeply research the people he interviews. He extensively reads and prepares for the guests he has on. Surprisingly, this is still a competitive advantage in the podcasting industry. Because of this, the questions he asks are very insightful and informative.

“If I do an AI interview where I’m interviewing Demis [Hassabis], CEO of DeepMind, I’ll probably have read most of DeepMind's papers from the last couple of years. I've literally talked to a dozen AI researchers in preparation for that interview — just weeks and weeks of teaching myself about [everything].”

Despite hosting a podcast, Dwarkesh optimizes for his own learning rather than for an audience.

...

"Margin" in finance means borrowing money to trade stocks or other financial assets with. If the price of an asset purchased with margin falls enough, the lender may perform a "margin call", forcibly liquidating a buyers' position and using the proceeds to compensate themselves for the loss.

...

I'm 27 years-old and work at a small software company. I went to a state school in the Midwest for a BS in Computer Science. I'm proud of my academic achievements, but I also regret not working harder in my teens and early 20s. If I had focused more in high school, I probably could've done better on my ACT/SAT and gotten into an Ivy League, or at least a higher-ranked engineering program.

At the same time, working in tech naturally points toward Silicon Valley, and a central part of the SV ethos is suspicion of traditional status hierarchies and credentials. We live in a time of unprecedented access to information, people, and resources. I firmly believe one can reach an undergraduate level in most subjects based purely on self-study, discipline, and perseverance. For some subjects like computer science, engineering, philosophy, or math, a graduate level might even be attainable.

The same concept applies for other areas of life. Blogs, GitHub, and social media used correctly can help you network and find a reference to a larger company or even a co-founder.
Fitness forums like r/Fitness have cracked the code on the fundamentals for losing weight and building muscle. The FIRE community, Bogleheads, and r/personalfinance have more info than you could ever need to optimize your budget and investments.

With all of these things available, the only wasted life is one spent not taking advantage of them. Dropouts like Zuckerberg, Edison, Dell, Dorsey, Jobs, Palmer Luckey, and Sam Altman have changed the world. Benjamin Franklin never had a college education. The Dalai Lama is a spiritual leader without a traditional higher education. I don't think I could ever match these people. However, even 1% of them would be a phenomenal life in terms of impact and contribution to the human project.

### What Did I Get Done Today?
- Ran retrospective
- Created story for backfilling program data.
- Picked up story for backfilling program data and mostly completed it.
- Responded to comments on canary MR and mostly finished code work to test.
- Talk to Ben Wallin about data synchronization for Red Rocks.
- Quick fix befor staging deployments to fix database secret ARN.

Regards,
Aaron
