---
title: 10/27/2024
author: Aaron Simpson
created: 10/27/2024
---
Today I slept a bit better than the nights before. Still not the best, but not the worst either. I woke up and spent a lot less time on my phone than I normally do, which makes me feel better. In the times that I have used my screens, I've spent less time in the social media death loop.

I woke up, spent some time in bed, read bits and pieces of essays, got out of bed, and brushed my teeth. Then I ate a Poptart for breakfast, watched some of a Chinese documentary with Deanna, then took out the big TV cardboard box. It took two trips to carry it to the dumpster, but I eventually got it done. Once I was finished, I helped Deanna take the sheets off the bed. While she cooked her lunches, I watched Destiny research Israel-Palestine. Then I got to work on my own learning. I watched some YouTube videos. Then I went for a walk.

While I was walking, I thought about how often I write about the election and Trump. The same thoughts go through my head over and over again. I need to write them down and organize my thoughts with evidence. Hopefully that will free my mind. Or of it doesn't, I can at least built off of it and choose actions. I should think about what I'll do under a potential illiberal regime.

I have to admit, I'm writing this after going on Twitter. I made the mistake of clicking accounts that I knew I would disagree with. I feel meaningfully annoyed, meaningfully more anxious, and meaningfully upset. This relation is important. I didn't have to do that to myself, but I did it anyway. Why?

After the election, I'm going through my Twitter and finding alternative feeds. Once those are organized, I'm unfollowing everyone and deleting my account. Once I start writing more, I'll create a new one if necessary. That account will follow zero accounts. It will be write-only, no read. Anyone who wants to contact me will have to email. Maybe I'll read DMs.

...

The bright side is I have so many intellectual resources to take advantage of now. I have time for taking courses and reading books and essays and learning things. I can read Wikipedia again. I can learn how to synthesize info. I can write more programs. I can write more in general (like I'm doing right now). I can burn through the backlog of things I have saved.

