I'm starting to think I need a serious break. I actually can't. I'm starting to fucking despise people that I share the country
with in a way that is definitely not healthy. Having to read people that I respect in so many other fields support a literal
insurrectionist that tried to overthrow an election and install himself to a second term just breaks my brain in a fundamental
way that feels unrecoverable. It makes me want to scream at them. It makes me lose respect for any of their ideas in other fields.
It makes me sad and scared for the future of our country and our species. I'm not crazy am I? Donald Trump actually did these
things and yet there are so many people, even in the field of technology, that support him. It drives me fucking wild. I don't know
how to disconnect. I honestly don't. I'm either going to lose my mind or disassociate or start sending people death threats or I'm
going to kill myself. One of them is going to occur. I don't know how to go on from this. It taints my mind in a way that feels
unrecoverable. I can't ignore it. I can't just watch it happen. I can't just do nothing. Yet, I have to do nothing. The world just
continues. How do I remain a liberal and tolerate opposing views against people that straight up support a man who would torch all
of those things? I don't know  Arguing with them is a waste of time. There's so many of them and only so little of me. And that's even
assuming they're willing to listen. It also torches relationships that could be useful to me. It feels like the only path is making
my opinion known for posterity, letting the chips fall as they may, and hoping that some day if shit gets real they'll see the error
of their ways. But by then it'll be too late. And maybe they never will.

I guess I'm just sad. Sad to see the real potential for the death of my country and everything that I've come to know and love over the
past few months. Sad that so many in this country seem to not care or actively support the coming destruction. Sad that that group seems to include my father and Erik Torenberg and Andreessen Horowitz and so many others. I'm sad. Sad of it all. How do I disconnect?
Make it stop.

