---
title: 10/28/2024
author: Aaron Simpson
created: 10/28/2024
---
Last night it was hard to sleep because of my congestion. I had to sleep with my mouth open. My mouth wasn't dry when I woke up, but it was a little sticky. Gross. I'm still trying to figure out a fix here. Maybe I need to try Zyrtec D like mom recommended.

Andrea is back at work today. Hopefully I can help her get readjusted back into things and catch up to speed. I've mostly finished all of my work. Waiting for reviews and comments on my stories so I can merge them. I tried to fix some merge conflicts on my CaaS VET Red Rocks story. I'll have to check once the pipeline finishes to make sure no significant regressions occur. I'd like to start doing weekly reviews again. I need to keep track of more metrics. There was a blog post I found over the weekend that talked about a weekly review habit. I can't remember what it as.

Oh I remember. It was writing down what I did, what I completed, and bugs that I found while working on things. Taking 5 minutes to write down how I approached a problem can help in the future.

I'm thinking about writing down my thoughts on Donald Trump. I need to write out an essay and just get everything out of my head. I can supplant it by writing follow-up essays and research notes on significant controversies and supporting evidence.
What I get it written out, it'll be in the public record and I can move on. It'll be a good opportunity to practice my writing. There are 8 days until the election. At this point it's almost locked in. It's just a matter of controlling the final news cycles.

I kind of just want to focus on my computer science stuff. There's so much more time I could invest in the things I'm interested in. I could get better at programming. I could learn more computer science. I could read more papers. I could write more programs. I could practice more mathematics. I could practice more engineering. I could learn more statistics and probability. Kai-Fu Lee lives under an authoritarian government in China, but he does just fine focusing on his computer science and business stuff. He's also a good writer, highly-educated, good at management, and a businessman. Michael Nielsen is a writer and researcher who doesn't talk about politics. His early specialty was physics, then he wrote about computing and programming, he has a side interest in artificial intelligence, a big following on social media, has written books, etc. He's a successful thinker outside of politics. 

I think a future happier direction for me is the path of Devon Zuegel, Michael Nielsen, and Kai-Fu Lee. It's okay to focus on political problems (housing, energy, immigration, urban design, etc.) However, actual politics is garbage and just not worth the time. After this election I'll get back to focusing on my strong suit - engineering, mathematics, and computer science. I can also do some more philosophy work and write some more fiction. Avi Shlaim wrote clearly on topics of history like Israel-Palestine. Destiny praised his writing. I should study it to find out why his writing is so good.

