---
title: 11/01/24
author: Aaron Simpson
date: 11/01/24
---

Dear Diary,

Last night, I spent most of the night on the phone with my dad. We talked about politics, life, and plans for the new year. I have a lot of paperwork I need to take care of as well.

This morning was pretty uneventful. I didn't sleep well last night. I woke up with dry mouth and couldn't breathe, and I woke up Deanna early :( However, the morning went by smoothly. I looked up some stuff, sat on the couch with Deanna during breakfast, and read Matt Levine after she left for work. I practiced reading aloud and comprehension. It reminded me of how good of a writer Matt Levine is.

I watched the ending of the Impact Theory podcast with Destiny. Near the end, Destiny made a good point about why he supports Kamala over Trump. When Joe Biden had a disastrous debate performance, he stepped down because he lost the confidence of his coalition. The Democratic establishment and the relatively left-leaning mainstream media were relentlessly critical and eventually he took the action that was best for the country. Part of the reason I support Kamal Harris is that I believe the Democratic Party has proven they are willing to criticize and restrain the worst impulses of even their own president when the time comes.

I don't believe the same mechanism exists for the Republican Party. With Donald Trump, it's either his way or the highway. Disagreeing with Donald Trump too much is a recipe for the end of your political career. It's happened to Liz Cheney, Mitt Romney, John McCain, Kevin McCarthy, multiple members of his own cabinet and administration, and even his own Vice President Mike Pence. There are *zero* restraints within the American right for its own worst impulses, because Trump has spent the past decade of his political career rooting them out and vaporizing them.

I feel more comfortable writing, but I don't feel comfortable writing fiction. I should practice that. Break down bigger stories into individual scenes. Map out plots. Come with plot ideas. Learn to write dialogue. My thoughts do feel a lot clearer now that I'm writing in this diary though. I'm organizing things more in my head. Hopefully it continues to work.
I believe my mission is to explore and model this universe. I'm very much like Charlie Munger in that sense. He was always reading and in some sense became a polymath. Even if I'll never be as wealthy as him, I find that inspiring.

I was reading about the history and development of Dwarf Fortress yesterday. It's insanely inspiring. Forget the money and success and fame that came with it. Just going back to the old days of blogging and developing a video game as a huge project over a long period of time. I like that. It fits nicely with Gwern's view of Long Content. It's a game that is not developed as a commercial project, but as a life passion. It's very literary in that sense. Games can be tools to communicate a message just as writing can be. Many of the best writers in history didn't write to get rich. They wrote because they had something to say and simply couldn't not say it. This was true for George Orwell and I imagine it was true for many others like Cormac McCarthy and Leo Tolstoy.

...

The Dutch East India Company was a massive chartered trading company in the 17th century. I'm sure a lot of authors, explorers, historians, and independent researchers worked for the Dutch East India Company. Some probably even made it into high-level positions. This is a model for the modern polymath. Rise up high in larger companies and use the proceeds to fund your research projects. If you can be an independent researcher, you can reach high in corporate America.

How did you make it into a high-level position at a company like VOC?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_East_India_Company

...

