---
title: 10/25/2024
author: Aaron Simpson
created: 10/25/2024
---
Today, I woke up before my alarm. I'd been breathing through my mouth again because of my allergies. I'll have to start taking anti-allergy medication again to make sure this doesn't flare up anymore. It sucks waking up with dry mouth and I don't want to have any associated dental issues.

I woke up a little later, sat on the couch, and browsed on social media on my phone. I caught up with Discord and was catching up with Twitter and Reddit. Deanna sat by me and was eating her breakfast. I showed her things and she was non-responsive. Seemed a little annoyed. Then she got up, went to the bedroom, and slammed the door. When I tried to come in she was upset and asked me to leave her alone. I have no idea what set her off and it's really fucking annoying to me. I'm kind of mad at her right now and don't really want to talk to her when she gets home unless I get some kind of explanation.

When she left, I went to sit in bed for a bit, continued scrolling on my phone, and then got up and took a shower. I used the typical Dove products I buy from Walmart to wash myself, then got out of the shower and sat down for work. I did my standup meeting at 9am, finished reviewing my work on my task from yesterday, and then did my Talent LMS corporate security training for the month.

At lunch, I had a ham, salami, and pepperoni sandwich with Italian bread and Gatorade. While eating, I watched a bit of a documentary on the history of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The section I'm currently watching covers the period from 1947 to 1956 (I think. It's sometime around the 1950s).

...

Elon Musk has been in the news for a PAC he started that's paying people to register to vote and sign a petition "protect gun rights and civil liberties like free speech". The Department of Justice sent him a warning that what he's doing could potentially be illegal. A lot of people are upset that the Attorney General isn't moving faster to file charges against him. On one hand, I understand why they're upset. The MAGA right-wing movement isn't going to ever see it as fair charges against Elon. Rather, they're always going to call it a political hitjob no matter what. Therefore, the argument goes that if your opponent is not in touch with reality and doesn't play by the rules, the game theoretic decision is to ignore them and carry forward with the charges. To do otherwise is lending your opponent undue credence.

I understand this position internally. It's logically sound and it feels good. However, part of me also understands the position that Merrick Garland and other institutional figures are in. At a time of institutional distrust, you have to tread carefully to not validate that mistrust and set off a firestorm that only gets you further in the whole. Worst case scenario, you only further damage your credibility and potentially cause violence and unrest.

I'll admit, the first argument is tempting. If the people already don't trust the institutions then how much more is their left to lose in their mind? Zero.

...

I'm deeply concerned about the possibility of a Trump win. I think more than likely he probably will. I'm not going to lie and say I'm not emotionally hedging. However, unless his electoral college advantage dissipates, or Kamala has a strong performance in certain brackets, I feel like it's hard for her to win.

The win condition for Kamala is that Trump's insanity and statements has shed a meaningful portion of suburban voters and white women. Increased Democratic turnout, plus the loss of people that at one time might have been in Trump's coalition pushes her over the line. Additional help could come from the salience of abortion as a national issue, the bump of a black president, the bump of a woman president, and Democratic mobilization due to Trump being on the ticket. If trends from 2022 follow, it's possible that Trump's electoral college advantage could dissipate.

The win condition for Trump is economic discontent and nostalgia for the economy of 2019. Abortion may not be as salient of an issue as it once was. His electoral college advantage and overperforming in the polls helps in a lot. Men are increasingly polarized away from the Democratic Party, and Hispanics and some black voters are trending away from them as well. We are undergoing increased gender polarization and racial depolarization.

I've said this before, but it needs to be said again. I want the historians of the future that may be reading this to know that not all of us supported this. In the event the unthinkable happens, we did not go quietly into this. The majority of America did not support this. In the event of horrific crimes against humanity and people, not all of America were bigots blindly in support of a populist strongman. We held out until the bitter end, attempting to uphold the ideals that this nation was founded on. Perhaps America can persist. Perhaps through a period of darkness, brighter days can come. Perhaps, even if we regress, we can appeal the better angels of our nature and restore the republic of the people. Donald Trump and Elon Musk do not represent all Americans or even a majority. They represent stupidity, bigotry, misogyny, demagoguery, and degeneracy. Elon Musk is a fat, idiotic, misogynist internet neckbeard that signal boosts vile garbage and propaganda. Trump I can (and will) write a whole essay on why I despise him.

My plan for after the election is to dissociate from the daily political horse-racing. I care about political topics. I like researching public policy, studying polling, learning about economics, and deciding what the optimal path for a chosen society is. I like history. I like political philosophy. I hate online politics though. I hate the people that talk about it. I hate most people on social media. I hate the daily news cycle. I hate many prominent politicians. I hate many prominent podcasters. I just want to learn and be informed on my own. Besides that, I'll just be a witness to history. I don't think I alone have any power to change anything. I can write and hope that those who come after find my thoughts useful in defending themselves. I can think and write down the ideas that founded our great nation and hopefully rebuild democracy in the future. Even if democracy in America dies, it will not die for good.

