---
title: 10/31/24
author: Aaron Simpson
date: 10/31/24
---

Dear Diary,

Last night, there was a thunderstorm. I watched about half of an MIT lecture on computer science. The course I'm taking is MIT 6.0001 Introduction to Computer Science and Programming using Python. My goal is to work through the OCW materials for all of EE and CS.

Today, I got out of bed pretty late. I was a minute or two late to standup. At least now I know my limits. I'd rate my sleep quality around 6-7/10. Not the best, but not the worst. My teeth don't feel good. It's rainy, cold, and cloudy outside. The computer says 49 degrees Fahrenheit with a high of 56. It's probably going to get colder from here on out. I should pull the trigger and buy boots this weekend.

My chores today are to make an eye doctor appointment and an appointment to renew my passport for our Ireland trip next year.

On the way to work, I listened to an episode of the Cartesian Cafe with Scott Aaronson. I learned more about his approach to blogging, social media, and his personal life. To this day, Scott is one of the few bloggers I read that doesn't have a Twitter account. Scott Alexander has a Twitter account, but mainly uses it for memes. These two facts should increase my prior against using Twitter.

I'm so inspired by Scott Aaronson, Scott Alexander, Eric Tool, Andrej Karpathy, and Michael Nielsen. All of these people use their blogs and Twitter to spread research and write about things that interest them. Scott Aaronson writes about current politics the most, while Scott Alexander, Tool, Karpathy, and Nielsen don't. Topol only concerns himself with political events that affect public health. Aaronson is a blogger and researcher in computer science. Alexander is a well-known blogger that writes about philosophy, politics, psychiatry, and rationalist ideas. Eric Topol does podcasts with people in public health and writes about medicine and pharmaceuticals. He has a Twitter account where his whole feed is just links to research papers. His Substack "Ground Truths" spreads more information on pharmaceutical and medical research. Karpathy shares various things on Twitter and uploads machine learning lectures on YouTube. Michael Nielsen has written multiple open access textbooks, shares interesting things on Twitter, and has an online notebook.

I think my optimal engagement with social media would be:
- A write-only Twitter account for sharing research. Organize similar to Eric Topol and Michael Nielsen. Share things only. Never read. Strong prior against arguing on the Internet and especially on Twitter.
- A Substack account that I use the most. Mirror my Twitter posts to Substack Notes. Engage more with readers and followers there and through email.
- Homepage website for resume and bio. Eventually turn into publication UI and layer over Substack.
- YouTube channel for lectures, audio, and interviews.

I also spent some time last night reading about Cormac McCarthy. He was a well-known American novelist who won the MacArthur Fellowship. His novel Blood Meridian is considered one of the greatest American novels of all time. He died in 2023 and never had social media or even a computer for that matter. He researched incredibly deeply for his projects, working on some for years. He typed on a typewriter. He spent time around and admired scientists. He was reclusive and gave his first interview ever in 1992 to The New York Times. He was also a teetotaler, saying that drinking was "...an occupation hazard to writing..." How would the next great American novelist use YouTube to their advantage?

...

Thinking about Cormac McCarthy, Andy Weir, Robert Caro, and other writers that do extensive research on the topics they cover. I'm interested in computer science, mathematics, statistics, and philosophy. My primary skillset and focus could be engineering, computer science, and math. I'll use those natural talents I have to make a living write on the side. Writing fiction and essays could give me an outlet to my research.

I think my reason for writing is the same as George Orwell: Political purpose. "Political" here is defined broadly as "advocating for a way the world should be, relative to how it is now".

...

There are meaningful conversations that we can have about social media misinformation and public health. There are actions that social media sites took that were probably too censorious. The messaging on the COVID pandemic from public health officials was also not clear or even contradictory at certain points in time. However, most people that take this oppositional position go too far in the other direction. They embrace conspiracies about vaccine effectiveness & side effects, the evils of Big Pharma, and mass death suppressed by the mainstream media and evil governments. They assume malice on the part of government officials and public health authorities where there is instead good intentions mired by bureaucracy and changing facts on the ground. They spread anti-establishment messages without understanding how the establishment even works.

In this epistemic environment, as someone who defends institutions, I am never yielding even reasonable arguments to a person like this.

...

Currently thinking about writing games. A fun side project could be writing a browser-based MUD (multi-user dungeon). Pedit5 could be fun to port to JavaScrpt and work in a browser. Dwarf Fortress is developed and maintained by one developer who wrote and released the entire thing for free. It could be fun to write a game as one of my life projects. This feels good. I'm following my interests more.
