Part of the problem with conspiracy-laden populism is that it destroys about ability to have good conversations. In the debate on gun control, there are common sense measures like red flag laws that are good ideas. However, gun rights defenders will never support them because they don't think advocates are coming in good faith. Red flag laws aren't the be-all, end-all. They're just step one on a broader path towards more strict gun laws like assault weapons bans that they
don't support.

Populism works the same way. The media and institutions were unjustifiably hostile to lab leak theory. However, when the loudest purveyors of lab leak are Brett Weinstein, Joe Rogan, and Trumpist Republicans like Tom Cotton and Marjorie Taylor Greene, it's understandable why no institutional power wants to yield even an inch to these people. Concerns about Biden's age encountered a similar dynamic. Yielding that Biden's age was a valid concern felt like it was yielding to the furthest possible arguments: that he was senile, dementia-ridden, and mentally unfit to even serve his current term, let alone another 4 years. It opened up bad faith attacks on normally uncontroversial processes, such as incumbent primaries being closer to coronations than open races. What makes this even worse is that the longer you double down, the harder the eventual correction feels and the more vindiciated the critics on the other side feel, fueling their populist distrust and furthering the cycle.

...

Populists invent problems where none exist. Every institution could be functioning perfectly and they would invent conspiracies to justify their populism. Case in point, Donald Trump and his election fraud theories.