- NIH inconsistencies in grant terminations.
	- Science Magazine article: https://www.science.org/content/article/exclusive-nih-documents-reveal-inconsistencies-grant-terminations-agency-reviews-3200
	- "Plaintiffs in that lawsuit say NIH may be violating its obligations to turn over relevant documents as part of the case’s discovery process. Agency claims it has no official guidance documents on how to select grants to kill or claims that they are privileged and don't need to be revealed."
	- "But each of NIH’s 27 institutes and centers (ICs) were explicitly ordered to come up with their own versions of guidelines delineating which projects should and should not be funded under the agency’s new “priorities,” according to an internal email. It’s not clear whether every IC did so, but _Science_ has seen such guidelines from five different ICs and they vary widely."
	- "In response to a 9 June court filing in which the plaintiffs complained that NIH had not produced information on the cancellation process they had requested, attorneys representing NIH countered that any such documents were “deliberative,” meaning they did not reflect the government’s final decisions and did not need to be disclosed. Additionally, they said, the “plaintiffs have not identified clear, specific evidence that any such guidance exists.”
		- Case alleges terminations of grants was arbitrary and capricious.
		- Either (a) there isn't such guidance, meaning that it is arbitrary, or (b) there is guidance, but for whatever reason you don't want to turn that over to the plaintiffs cause it might not look good for you
		- Is there a specific legal definition of "arbitrary and capricious"?
	- "At the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, seven pages of [guidance](https://www.science.org/do/10.1126/science.zayz7xq/full/nhlbi-1749844253710.pdf) last updated on 22 May list the same topics but also include vaccine hesitancy and COVID-19."
		- Vaccine skeptics will complain that there is no evidence of the effects of these vaccines on people and their hearts and lungs, but then is killing any research that could be done into those effects?
- Israel attacks Iran over nuclear facilities; Iran attacks Israel and shoots missiles at Tel-Aviv in response. Has been occurring over the past 48 hours.