1. **Fuck. Trying.** I had "tried" to get better in the past. Trying wasn't going cut it. Succeeding was going to cut it. I knew that if I began to falter or fail then I had to pivot and keep moving forward to get the job done.
2. **Affirmations:** I hated them at first. I didn't believe them. But I kept saying them. Anything i could think of. I did them daily for a year. Then another year. Now I just do them because I enjoy spending time with myself. I enjoy complimenting myself. I'm not saying be arrogant, but I know what I'm good at. I know what i COULD BE good at. I'm not going to berate myself if I mess up. "Hey, man, you'll get there. Maybe not today, but someday. You can do this." I do the same thing with others. I will affirm the shit out of my friends and family even when it makes them uncomfortable because you know what, fuck 'em. They're good people. They get affirmed.
3. **Work Out:** I began with bodyweight fightness (with help from [/r/bodyweighfitness](https://www.reddit.com/r/bodyweighfitness)). I got more in shape but I wanted to be able to get more from him.
4. **Eat Better:** With fitness, my diet had to change. I quickly learned that I had to live a better lifestyle. I had to live a better lifestyle and that began with what i put into me.
5. **Admit My Faults:** I had to admit that alcohol was not working in my best interest. I had to admit that my inability to put the beer down was problem. I had to admit that the way I drank wasn't normal and that regular people don't do "tolerance breaks" to "prove they're not alcoholics". I was.
6. **Change the Way I Speak:** I don't leave the door open for little bits of doubt to sneak in. Everyone is fighting demons and the demons cheat. They bring friends. So to keep them out I slam the door on their damn hands. I don't say, "Oh I drinking." I say, "I don't drink." When someone proposes an idea that is not in my best interest I don't get wishy washy and say, "Oh I don't know." I say, "No." "Come on dude, why not?" "Because no." I don't owe anything to anyone but myself. And I need to look out for whats best for me. The sentence is thrown around a lot but it's true: "The word 'No,' is a complete sentence." Say it, stick to it.
7. **Show Gratitude Daily:** Everyone I respect and look up to was grateful for what was around them. No matter how shit of a situation i was in, my dad always said, "It's fun isn't it?" This dude literally reveled in shit moments because he found gratitude in being useful in the resolution. I am grateful for my alcoholism because it showed me that I control me, not my issues. It showed my that I am in charge. Every single day my wife and I say 5 things we're grateful for. Every. Single. Day. Even when we lost our dog (the one who stopped me in my bathtub). It was hard. I didn't want to. "I'm grateful i ate today. I'm grateful the heat is on because it's -4 outside. I'm grateful I have...pants. I'm grateful for the love that dog showed me every day. I'm grateful that she looked past my faults and loved me."
8. **Hold Myself Accountable:** I don't do "accountabili-buddies". I don't ask anyone to watch out for me. My wife does, but I don't need it. I hold myself accountable before anyone else. It is MY job to climb my mountains.
9. **Visualize**: So I have aphantasia. Didn't know that was a thing until 3 months ago. Damn near shit myself when I learned you "normals" can actually see shit when you imagine things. So when I visualize, I have to focus on the feeling. I start and end my day with at least 10 minutes of visualization. I focus on what I want. I visualize what i want. I feel how it would feel.
10. **Savor:** I find myself more and more savoring in the little things each day. Sitting in the sun with my dog before winter hits. Sitting in the rain with my dog. sitting in the mud with my dog. Rolling in the grass with my dog. I think i'm too attached to my dog. My wife found a recipe for sausage and barley stuffed acorn squash last night. She cooked it, filling the house with amazing aromas and sounds. The flavors from the meal were hearty and filling and perfect on an autumn day. I savored the shit out of that. I drove down my street last week after work - the autumn leaves were hues of yellow and orange and red while the grass burst forth in a verdant celebration of life beneath them. I savored that drive. I savored that moment because not everyone gets to see that kind of a sight. Savor the little things. Savor the big things. I savored a freaking McD's sausage biscuit last month. It's amazing - drive up to a building, shout into a box, get a sandwhich, drive away. Yeah it's greasy, bad for me, and not in my best interest but goddamn. I hadn't had fast food in years and something about it just hit a spot.
11. **Find What Matters and Go To It**: I wound up being really good at my chosen vocation. I can make a killing in it. I make money for other people and with that I can make myself money. I don't like it anymore though. I used to. It was fun. Exciting. It's not anymore. Know what I like? Writing. I have been trying to get a manuscript published for...4 years? I wrote kids books about my dogs. Picture books. I couldn't get them picked up. So i changed directions, made them a chapter book, and couldn't get that picked up. I rewrote it - didn't like what i wrote - so rewrote it again. That didn't get picked up. (we're talking between 30-90 agents submitted to per attempt here). I just rewrote them AGAIN as picture books and I'm looking for an agent for them. I've failed in every step of this process with them - but mark my word I will get this published. Creating a legacy for me and for my dogs who saved my life is important to me. Not just that...it's exciting. It's fun. I enjoy writing. I'm also writing a fantasy novel. Have been for 6 years. I'm sitting at 75k words in ONE character's arc. WAY too many words. But it's so enjoyable. The creation of the world, the races, the languages, the towns, the rituals, customs, etc. I'm also writing a self-help book. I'm also writing short stories. I'm not saying write the great american novel - but get up and find what you love. Then go after it even if nothing happens. My time in this world is way to damn short to spend it doing something that doesn't fill me with happiness.
12. **Front Load Pain:** Other relationships will cause problem. People will want things, jobs will want things. I get it all out of the way up front and as soon as i can. The sooner the hard and painful shit is done the sooner i can focus on solving problems.
13. **Focus on Solutions, not Problems:** Where is your attention right now? Is it on how you DON'T have X, Y or Z? Or is it on how you can GET X, Y, or Z? Stop focusing on what you DON'T have or what is WRONG. Start focusing on what DO have, how to GET what you want, and how to MAKE SHIT RIGHT
14. **Kill the Ego:** If your friend inherits a million dollars today would you be jealous? Make up reasons why they don't deserve it? Tell yourself how it's not fair? Every single one of those thoughts is some bullshit story your ego is telling you to make you feel better. Fuck that ego bitch, it's holding you back. It doesn't matter what successes other people have. Focus on your own. Celebrate theirs with them, and then go get your own. Not comfortable reaching out and trying new things? Don't want to? Scared? That's your ego talking. Your ego wants to keep you where you are because it's "safe" and "familiar". You gotta smack that bitch in the mouth and tell it to keep its shit closed up tight. You know that comfort zone you're in? Break it. Show that ego that you're in charge. Yeah you'll fail. But you'll have a funny story.