1. Take any argument about "objective truth" with a grain of salt. There's very little about software that's scientifically studied, and most of the research is inconclusive. Don't mistake good writers for necessarily good programmers.
2. Don't worry too much about getting tricked or learning the wrong thing. As long as you're not actively sabotaging your coworkers, it'll probably work out.
3. Read the book *Debugging: The 9 Rules*.
4. At some point you will discover the Right Way to program, the thing which makes this all make sense, and you'll be convinced that the whole field would be so much better off if everybody else programmed the Right Way, too. Programming is frustrating and messy regardless of which Right Way people use, and that you can also make great software without doing it the Right Way. Over time you'll learn fifty other Right Ways and learn to mix and match them to the problem at hand.
5. When you first encounter the Right Way, it will likely be from someone who went full Right Way Guy. Try not to hold it against them later. And try not to conflate the actual technique with how the RWG pitches the technique. Most ideas need some modification from their purest form to integrate well with other ideas.
6. Behind every best practice is a horror story. If you don't understand a Best Practice, look for the horror story that inspired it.
7. If something sounds like a just-so story, it very well might be. You can often retrace the whole path if you're willing to look.
8. Take walks
9. Almost every tool you use has some form of hidden depth, from your programming language to git to JIRA. Don't feel like you have to become an expert in every single one, but do consider spending 5-10 minutes learning a bit more about what it can do.
10. Talk to people in other parts of the company: support, business domain, sales, etc. Consider shadowing them if you have the time (and feel comfortable asking). You'll be surprised by what you learn!
11. If possible, try to do a few different types of programming earlier in your career. This doesn't have to mean switching jobs: most companies are doing several different kinds of programming at once. So like if you're starting in a webdev company, try some frontend, some backend, some operations, some database stuff, and so forth.
12. Software as a field is changing all the time, and that you shouldn't get swept up in the framework treadmill, just focus on learning fundamental skills. Still, you hear about something that gets you excited, go ahead and be an early adopter, otherwise it's okay to wait a couple years to see if it has legs.
13. Ultimately none of us can predict the future, just as none of us could have predicted the present. Just try to do the best you can, live according to your values, and enjoy the ride.

## Ways Programming Careers Fail
1. You've accumulated enough experience to become a mentor or a firefighter. This leads you to spending more time answering other people's questions that it does to coding. Over time this will erode your ability to code and possibly impact time spent on gaining new coding skills.
2. The job you are in is "stable" and therefore there's no pressure to move beyond what you've been doing for the last _n_ years. Again leading to erosion of skillset and a lack of new skills. Sure people are still looking for COBOL developers... somewhere...
3. 1 & 2 compound each other and give you a big head. You've been with an organization or just generally doing development for 15-20+ years. You've seen it all. You've been part of small projects, huge projects, startup like efforts, one's that crashed, and one's that saved the company. You think you know better and that you're above certain questions that get asked. You don't need those code reviews. TDD? BAH! That's for shit coders... YOU'RE a REAL coder. Everyone's hopping on GIT... It's just a fad... Harvest has worked just fine for you for a decade now.
4. You just want to code in [language of choice] and be left alone. You are happy being a code monkey but companies are looking for an _agile ninja_. You are a mono-tasker where companies are looking for force-multipliers. They need someone to "socialize their process" and "advocate for quality" and all you want to do is 9-5 and sit at a desk and be a blue-collar-coder churning out whatever someone tells you. Nothing wrong with that, but it might be harder to find the company looking specifically for that type of developer.
5. You've been a big fish in a tiny pond for too long. Maybe you were the only web developer, or DBA, or the keymaster or whatever that made you unique in your organization. Outside of that organization you're just another developer looking for work. You might not know how to contrast and compare your experience with other people in the industry. You might not be able to articulate what makes you special versus someone 20 years younger.
6. You are confident in your abilities. You have solid work experience and a solid work ethic. You're also mature enough that you don't care to play games or mince words. Why waste your time. You're a tell it like it is person. When you get an interview at that great new startup and the manager asks what you liked about [language], since it's on your resume, you tell him; You fucking hated [language], too many problems, nice in theory, a play language, didn't scale... on and on... Not knowing that the manager, who's about your age, is an expert on [language] and it was his language of choice until he recently became a manager. He now thinks you're an idiot.
7. You're stuck being twenty - you wanna stay up doing hackathons, drinking red bull or monster, going to every conference and user group, networking, talking code, drinking Soylent to not waste a single moment. You are constantly moving from one technology to the next, never being still, always ready to expand your knowledge. Unfortunately this means you don't have any depth of knowledge. You have 60 different languages on your resume, but you've only used each of them for a demo of something or other; 6 months experience at best. Sure you've got [language] experience, you did a POC for a startup... and then there was that time you did [language] for a little dialog inside another companies application. You're an _innovator_ in your own mind but a tumble-weed developer to everyone else.
8. Stereotypes: People see 35-40 year old's as "should-be-settled" types of people; Matured. Age implies certain things like skills or temperament. If you don't define your life's narrative others will. People might see 40 and think "why hasn't he progressed to architect/manager/director?" or "he's been doing this 20 years but only lists 4 programming languages" not knowing that you've had experience in 10 others at least a decade ago, but your resume focuses on the last 5-7 years. Are you their mature anchor that they need to stabilize their young team? Are you their reliable work-horse that churns the code out day after day? Or are you that guy that brings objectivity and wisdom that only comes with experience? How do you fit their stereotype or how do you break it?